.TH DRACHMAD 1 "January 2026" "drachma 0.1.0" "DRACHMA Core"
.SH NAME
drachmad \- DRACHMA network daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B drachmad
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B drachmad
is the DRACHMA network daemon. It implements the DRACHMA protocol for peer-to-peer 
connections, validates and relays transactions and blocks, and maintains the blockchain.
.PP
DRACHMA is a Proof-of-Work monetary blockchain designed for long-term stability, 
auditability, and minimal trust assumptions.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-conf=\fIFILE\fR
Specify configuration file (default: drachma.conf)
.TP
.BR \-datadir=\fIDIR\fR
Specify data directory
.TP
.BR \-network=\fINETWORK\fR
Connect to network (mainnet, testnet, regtest)
.TP
.BR \-listen
Accept connections from outside (default: 1 if no \-proxy or \-connect)
.TP
.BR \-port=\fIPORT\fR
Listen for connections on PORT (default: 9333 or testnet: 19333)
.TP
.BR \-rpcuser=\fIUSER\fR
Username for JSON-RPC connections
.TP
.BR \-rpcpassword=\fIPASSWORD\fR
Password for JSON-RPC connections
.TP
.BR \-rpcport=\fIPORT\fR
Listen for JSON-RPC connections on PORT (default: 8332 or testnet: 18332)
.TP
.BR \-addnode=\fIIP\fR
Add a node to connect to and attempt to keep the connection open
.TP
.BR \-daemon
Run in the background as a daemon
.TP
.BR \-prune=\fIN\fR
Reduce storage requirements by pruning (deleting) old blocks. 
This mode disables wallet support and is incompatible with \-txindex.
.TP
.BR \-txindex
Maintain a full transaction index, used by the getrawtransaction RPC call
.TP
.BR \-version
Print version and exit
.TP
.BR \-help
Print help message and exit
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
The configuration file is not automatically created; you can create it using your 
favorite text editor. By default, drachmad will look for a file named drachma.conf 
in the data directory.
.PP
Example configuration:
.PP
.nf
.RS
server=1
daemon=1
rpcuser=myuser
rpcpassword=mypassword
rpcallowip=127.0.0.1
listen=1
.RE
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.drachma/drachma.conf
Configuration file for drachmad
.TP
.I ~/.drachma/blocks/
Blockchain data files
.TP
.I ~/.drachma/chainstate/
UTXO set database
.TP
.I ~/.drachma/debug.log
Log file
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR drachma-cli (1),
.BR drachma-qt (1)
.PP
Full documentation at: <https://github.com/Tsoympet/BlockChainDrachma>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2026 DRACHMA Blockchain contributors.
.PP
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.
There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
